README.md, before:

# tryout-any-3d-model-to-glb

**Node.js utility to convert various 3D model formats to GLB**

- Version: 0.0.1
- Created: 2025-10-18 by Rich Plastow
- Updated: 2025-10-18 by Rich Plastow
- License: MIT
- Repo: <https://github.com/richplastow/tryout-any-3d-model-to-glb>

## Install

There's just one runtime dependency,
[assimpjs](https://www.npmjs.com/package/assimpjs), which is a WebAssembly port
of the [Assimp](https://www.assimp.org/) 3D model import/export library.

```bash
npm install --production
# installs assimpjs (not dev-dependencies), ~12 MB for ~200 items
```

## Command-line usage

```bash
node any-3d-model-to-glb.js examples/models/cube.obj output.glb
# ✅ Wrote output.glb (228 bytes)

node any-3d-model-to-glb.js --help
# ...shows CLI usage
```

## Examples

Check the results in example-outputs/ after running each example, and drag them
into <https://playcanvas.com/model-viewer> to check they look right.

1. `node examples/01-cube-obj/example-01.js` Converts a simple cube.obj to GLB format

## Contributing

## Install and build

```bash
npm install --global rollup
# added 4 packages, and audited 5 packages in 1s
rollup --version
# rollup v4.52.5
npm install
# installs the "@types/node" dev-dependency, and assimpjs -
# ~12 MB for ~200 items
npm run build
# any-3d-model-to-glb.js → docs/any-3d-model-to-glb.js...
# created docs/any-3d-model-to-glb.js in 32ms
# ✅ Build succeeded!
```

### Check types

```bash
npm install --global typescript
# added 1 package in 709ms
tsc --version
# Version 5.9.3
npm check-types
# ✅ No type-errors found!
```

### Unit tests

```bash
npm test
# ...
# OK: All any3dModelToGlb() tests passed!
# ✅ All tests passed!
```

### Preflight, before each commit

```bash
npm run ok
# ...runs tests, checks types, and rebuilds the bundle-file in docs/
# ...
# ✅ Build succeeded!
```

Commit message:

feat: adds index.html demo

README.md, after:

# tryout-any-3d-model-to-glb

**Node.js utility to convert various 3D model formats to GLB**

- Version: 0.0.1
- Created: 2025-10-18 by Rich Plastow
- Updated: 2025-10-18 by Rich Plastow
- License: MIT
- Repo: <https://github.com/richplastow/tryout-any-3d-model-to-glb>
- Demo: <https://richplastow.com/tryout-any-3d-model-to-glb/>

## Install

There's just one runtime dependency,
[assimpjs](https://www.npmjs.com/package/assimpjs), which is a WebAssembly port
of the [Assimp](https://www.assimp.org/) 3D model import/export library.

```bash
npm install --production
# installs assimpjs (not dev-dependencies), ~12 MB for ~200 items
```

## Browser usage

The demo page docs/index.html provides an easy-to-follow example of how to use
tryout-any-3d-model-to-glb in the browser. To run the demo locally, serve the
docs/ folder using a simple HTTP server, for example:

```bash
npx http-server docs
# Need to install the following packages:
# http-server@14.1.1
# Ok to proceed? (y) y
# ...
# CORS: disabled
# ...
# Available on:
#   http://127.0.0.1:8080
# ...
# Hit CTRL-C to stop the server
```

Then visit <http://localhost:8080> in a modern browser.

## Command-line usage

```bash
node any-3d-model-to-glb.js examples/models/cube.obj output.glb
# ✅ Wrote output.glb (228 bytes)

node any-3d-model-to-glb.js --help
# ...shows CLI usage
```

## Examples

Check the results in example-outputs/ after running each example, and drag them
into <https://playcanvas.com/model-viewer> to check they look right.

1. `node examples/01-cube-obj/example-01.js` Converts a simple cube.obj to GLB format

## Contributing

## Install and build

```bash
npm install --global rollup
# added 4 packages, and audited 5 packages in 1s
rollup --version
# rollup v4.52.5
npm install
# installs the "@types/node" dev-dependency, and assimpjs -
# ~12 MB for ~200 items
npm run build
# any-3d-model-to-glb.js → docs/any-3d-model-to-glb.js...
# created docs/any-3d-model-to-glb.js in 32ms
# ✅ Build succeeded!
```

### Check types

```bash
npm install --global typescript
# added 1 package in 709ms
tsc --version
# Version 5.9.3
npm check-types
# ✅ No type-errors found!
```

### Unit tests

```bash
npm test
# ...
# OK: All any3dModelToGlb() tests passed!
# ✅ All tests passed!
```

### Preflight, before each commit

```bash
npm run ok
# ...runs tests, checks types, and rebuilds the bundle-file in docs/
# ...
# ✅ Build succeeded!
```
